Hello and welcome to this art tutorial.
So today we're starting a new branch of machine learning which is reinforcement learning and that is
taking us closer to the field of artificial intelligence because robots and artificial intelligence
that comes with it are partly built with reinforcement learning.
So to prevent from any disappointment in the next tutorials we're not going to build any robot but we
will solve a very interesting problem which is called the multi Bendit problem and we are going to solve
this problem with the two most popular algorithms for this.
These are the upper confidence bound and the Tompson something algorithms.
So we're going to start today with upper confidence bounds we're going to implement this algorithm in
our.
And in this first tutorial we are going to import the data set and explain what the problem is.
That is we will explain what the multi-point problem is about.
So let's start with the basics.
Let's set the right for them as working directory so let's go to our machine in the folder then Part
6 reinforcement learning and Section 32 per company is about UCB.
All right.
And now in this folder make sure that you have the add city optimization city Rs4 click through rates
so we are going to try to optimize the click through rates of different users on an ad that we put on
a social network and therefore that's the name of our data sets.
Yes.
So if you have this data set you are now ready to click on this more button here and then set as working
directory.
Good.
And now we are going to import the data set.
So as usual we're going to call or voidable for the data set data set and then equals read that t as
we hear this.
And then in parenthesis we just need to add in quotes the name of the data set.
So it's right here and it is adds underscore city are on the score up to zation.
Here we go.
And let's not forget to dot see as being the end.
And now rarety to import this data set.
So let's do it let's select this line and execute dataset will import it.
Now let's have a look.
By clicking on this set right here.
Here we go.
OK.
So remember in part 3 Cl. we dealt with a problem that consisted of classifying and targeting the users
on a social network for some car company marketing campaigns.
Remember we had this business client of the social network that put ads on the social network and then
we made these classification models to target the users on the social network most likely to buy this
brand new luxury SUV that the car company launched at a very low price and basically to prepare this
marketing campaign this car company prepared an ad that they would put on the social network.
And what happened is that the Department of Marketing prepared some different versions of the same ad
you know putting the car in different scenarios like for example one ad had the car on a beautiful road
and on another version of the ad the car is on a mountain and maybe on another version it's on a beautiful
bridge.
Well the Department of Marketing prepared different versions of this same ad that they would put on
the social network.
But the problem is that they prepared 10 great versions of the same ad the 10 versions of this ad look
great.
So they're actually not very sure of which ad to put on the social network.
They want to put the ad that will get the maximum clicks.
You know so that most users buy the SUV.
And so they need to put the ads that will lead to the best conversion rates.
So what this company did is that they hired us as a data scientist and they said OK I have 10 versions
of the ad.
We have a limited budget to place the ads in The Social Network because putting these ads on the social
network cost them money.
And so this company would like a state of scientists to find the best strategy to quickly find out which
version of this ad is the best for the users that is which version of the ad will lead us to the highest
conversion rate.
That's the city are that's the click through rates.
We want to find the ad that will get the most clicks.
And so now speaking of this this is leading us to the key difference between what we're about to do
now and what we've been doing earlier because earlier we had a data set with some data content independent
variables and one dependent variable.
And then we did some clustering where we had independent variables only and now things are different.
We start with no data.
I know we have some data set in front of us but this is just data set for simulation because what happens
in real life.
And we're going to pretend we're in real life.
We're going to pretend that we don't have any data yet.
Well what happens in real life is that we are going to start experimenting with this and by placing
them on a social network to different versions of the ad.
And according to the results we observe we will change our strategy to place these ads on the social
network.
So here are the different steps of the this we have 10 versions of the same add 10 versions of this
ad trying to sell this cheap luxury SUV.
And each time a user of the social network will log into his account we will place one version of these
10 ads and that will be around each time a user connects to its account.
We will show him one version of the ad for example at 3 version 3 of your ad and we will observe its
response if the user clicks on the ad.
We get a reward equals to 1.
And if the user doesn't click on the ad we get a reward equals to zero and we're going to do this for
ten thousand users on the social network.
We're going to show the ad to 10000 users.
We're going to observe if the user clicks yes or no on the ad if the user clicks on the ad that will
give us one we want and if the user doesn't click on the ad that will give us zero we want however we're
not going to show the different versions of the ads we choose or at random there's going to be a specific
strategy to do this.
And the key thing to understand about reinforcement learning is that this strategy will depend at each
round on the previous results we observed at the previous rounds.
So for example when we are at around 10.
Well what happens behind the scene is that the algorithm will look at the different results observed
during the first ten rounds and according to these results it will decide which version of the ad it
will show to the user.
That's why reinforcement learning is also called Online learning or interactive learning.
Because the strategy is dynamic it depends on the observations from the beginning of the experiment
up to the present time.
And so now what is the data set.
This is just some simulation of what is going to happen when we show the ads to the users.
In other words this is what God knows because we have no idea on which ad each user is going to click
on.
And that's what the data set is telling us it's telling is for each round that is for each user connecting
to his account on which versions of the user is going to click on.
So let's give an example let's explain what happens for the five first users.
So let's take the first round.
And according to the simulation or according to God this first user of the social network is going to
click on the ad if we show him the first version.
The fifth version and the 9th version and if we show him the second version the third version the fourth
version 6 7 8 or tenth version.
Well this user is not going to click on the AD.
So this is what God knows.
But as far as we are concerned we have no idea on which ads this will click on.
So what about the second user.
So that's the second round at the second round we show another version of the ad and according to God's
truth the second user will only click on the ad if we show him the ninth version.
The third user will never click on the add whatever version we display.
The fourth user will only click on the second version and the 8th version and the fifth user will never
click on the ad.
Whatever version we show to him.
All right so that's the idea of the problem.
And so we're going to build two algorithms the UCB algorithm and the Tompson something algorithm and
these algorithms will decide from here which version of the ad to show to the user.
And depending on the reward the ads will get that as reward equals when the user clicks on the ads or
we word equals zero if the user doesn't click on the ad will decide which ad to show to the user at
the next round.
According to the previous observations.
And so we're going to have 10000 rounds if we go down here we can see that we're showing the ad to 10000
users.
And so of course the goal of the algorithm is to maximize the total reward.
That is the sum of all the different rewards and each round obtained by the different selections of
the ads.
OK so let's do it.
Let's start with upper confidence about the UCB algorithm.
But before we start implementing this algorithm I would like to show you something I would like to show
you what would happen if we randomly select the versions of the ad at each trial.
You know no algorithm no strategy.
Each time a user connects to its account we're displaying one version of these ten at totally random.
So I actually prepared this algorithm.
We're not going to implemented together because this algorithm is actually not very relevant just to
give you the motivation of what we will implement in the next tutorials.
But this algorithm is actually provided in the folder you see it's this random selection file.
And actually I pre-vetted here that's the algorithm.
So as you can see I call this algorithm random selection here.
I'm importing the day said as we just did so I don't need to execute that again.
And in this section I am implementing the random selection algorithm that just consists of selecting
at random one version of the ad and each round that is each time a user connects on its social work
it counts.
So I'm going to execute the section right now.
So here it is well-implemented.
And we can see the different results of this algorithm.
So the most important result is the total We want there is this variable is the sum of the different
rewards up to the last round.
That is up to the 10000 user.
And so what is the total reward the total reward is one thousand two hundred and forty two.
So what happened is that the random selection algorithm randomly selected each and each round we can
actually see the random selections in this selected list.
So we can clearly see what happened at ground zero for the first user the random selection algorithm
selected the version number for then and the second round the version before then that the third round
the version number three then the fourth run version number one and the fifth round version number four.
That's the random selections.
And so at each round based on the god's true results the selection of the ad generated a reward.
So at the first round for the first use of connecting and to count the random selection algorithm selected
at number four and we see a zero here which means that this first user doesn't take on this.
And so we get a zero reward at the first round.
Then what about the second selection for.
Well we see here the second round that there is also as you were at number four which means that the
second user doesn't click on this ad and therefore we also get a zero reward and the total reward that
we observe here is actually the sum of all the rewards that it gets whether it's 0 or 1 at the end of
the ten thousand rounds.
All right.
So the interesting thing to remember here is that when we randomly select the ads we get a reward of
one thousand two hundred and forty two.
Well you know there is this random factor.
And so of course if we select that again we'll get another word but it will be very close to this value
here.
I'm going to do that again.
And as you can see we get 1232 and I can even do that again.
I get 1246 again 1236.
So we always get a total reward close to 1200.
So let's keep this resolved in our mind because then we'll compare it to the total reward that we get.
Thanks to our more advanced algorithm which has the upper confidence down and then the Tompson sampling
algorithm.
So 1200 Let's see how you see me and Tompson something beat that.
And now just the last thing to show you as for every algorithm we implement in this course we get the
exciting step in the end which is to visualize the results.
Well in this part reinforcement learning the visualization of the results will consist of visualizing
the histogram where we see the different selections of the different versions of the data.
So I'm going to show you what happened for our Random selection algorithm that Stuart Breske amount
of control and to execute.
And here we go.
Of course since our algorithm randomly selected the different versions of the ads at each round.
Well of course we get a nearly uniform distribution of the different versions of the at the ten different
versions of the ad were selected more or less the same number of times.
All right so that was just to give you a little extra motivation and now time to go pro let's go back
to our UCB algorithm and start implementing it.
So remember 1200 total we work for the random selection algorithm.
Let's see how UCB beats that.
So we'll find out in the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy machine learning